

























































Kitchen Basics















            Don’t Toss ‘Em! 5 Delicious Ways to Use Broccoli Stems
        
Food waste is a big issue in Canada, yet there are plenty of easy, commonly overlooked things you can do at home to dramatically reduce your own waste footprint. For instance: finding creative (and tasty!) ways to eat the often discarded parts of fruits and veggies. Most people are quick to toss away leaves, peels, stems and stalks, when really, these are delicacies that can lend flavour, texture and vibrancy to so many dishes.
If you often find yourself wondering what to do with broccoli stems, we’ve got you covered: Once peeled, they’re sweet and crunchy, and when cooked, they’re incredibly tender. Broccoli stems are also quite versatile: you can shred them into rice, spiralize them into noodles, blitz them into hummus or pesto, add them to broths, blend them into soups and even roast them into french fries (yes, really!). Read on to learn how it’s done.
1. Broccoli “Rice”
Did you know broccoli rice can be used as a wonderful substitute for white rice, brown rice or cauliflower rice? Use it to make fried rice, add it to 
or simply add it to a salad.

4 broccoli stems

1. Using a paring knife or peeler, peel the tough skin of the stem.

2. Run the stems along a grater, or if using a food processor, install the grating blade and run the stems through the feeder tube.

3. Squeeze out any excess moisture.
2. Broccoli Slaw
You may have seen broccoli slaw in ready-to-go bags at the grocery store, but it’s so easy and quick to make at home. Broccoli stems hold up in a slaw, they’re hearty and retain dressing really well so they don’t get soggy. Like any slaw, you can add whichever veggies you love and make different style 
 to go along with it.
2 broccoli stems, julienned

2 carrots, julienned

1 cup sliced purple cabbage

½ cup roughly chopped mixed herbs (basil, mint, cilantro, parsley)

¼ cup extra-virgin olive oil

3 Tbsp apple cider vinegar

1 Tbsp honey

1 Tbsp whole-grain mustard

Pinch of sea salt and pepper

1. Using a paring knife or peeler, peel the outer tough skin of the broccoli stem and then thinly julienne it. If using a food processor, install the grating blade and run stems through.

2. Julienne the carrots, thinly slice the purple cabbage and roughly chop the herbs. You can also grate the carrots with the grating blade on the food processor.

3. Toss everything together in a bowl.

4. Whisk the dressing in a separate dish, then pour over the slaw. The slaw can be kept in the fridge for up to 4 days.
3. Broccoli Noodles
If you’re looking for low-carb options, broccoli noodles can replace traditional pasta. The best broccoli noodles are made using a spiralizer, but if this isn’t a kitchen gadget you own, opt for a veggie peeler instead!
2 broccoli stems

1. Using a paring knife or peeler, peel the outer tough skin of the broccoli stem.

2. If using a spiralizer, run it through to create noodles, or use your peeler, and continue to peel until you have flat, long tagliatelle-style noodles.
4. Broccoli Hummus
When broccoli stems are lightly steamed, it takes the bitter edge off. The stems are also milder in flavour than the florets, so the broccoli taste in this hummus recipe isn’t overpowering. Combining with other classic ingredients makes for a unique twist on an already fantastic snack staple. Smear it onto sandwiches, use it to dip fresh veggies and crackers, or have it act as dressing for pasta salad.
3 broccoli stems

¼ cup tahini

½ lemon, juiced

1 garlic clove

¼ cup fresh parsley (optional)

¼ tsp sea salt

Pinch of pepper

2-3 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil

1. Using a paring knife or peeler, peel the outer tough skin of the broccoli stem. Lightly steam until tender.

2. In a food processor, add all ingredients, except olive oil. Begin to blitz, then add 1 Tbsp of oil at a time through the feeder tube until creamy and perfectly blended. If the mixture is too thick, you can add a few spoonfuls of water as needed.
4. Broccoli Fries
This is one of our favourite ways to devour broccoli stems. They have a firm texture, which makes them perfect for roasting into a french fry. When roasted, the stems become slightly sweet, and soften on the outside, while the middle still retains its satisfying crunch. You can eat these as is or dip them into hummus or even ketchup.
4 broccoli stems

1 to 2 Tbsp avocado oil

¼ tsp sea salt

Pinch of pepper

¼ tsp granulated garlic

1. Preheat oven to 375°F.

2. Using a paring knife or peeler, peel the outer tough skin of the broccoli stem, then slice into french fry shapes.

3. Place the “fries” on a baking sheet, drizzle with oil and season with salt, pepper and garlic. Ensure the pieces are spread out so they have a chance to crisp.

4. Roast for 25-30 minutes until lightly browned.
Broccoli stems aren’t the only overlooked ingredients to incorporate into your cooking routine! Try these 
. Plus, find out 
.
Topics:






































Share:
Chefs & Hosts


































































































































































































Let's Be Social












About Us






















Popular Search Topics


































Casting Call
Think you have what it takes? Be on a Food Network Canada show! See what shows are casting today.
Get the Newsletter
Be the first to know about brand-new shows, the freshest recipes and exciting contests.

					© Corus Entertainment Inc., 2021.
					All rights reserved. Corus Lifestyle.
				
