































Nav Social Menu








Three Ways to Make Bubble Tea
Happy June everyone! It's officially summer which for me means bubble tea season. Who am I kidding? It's bubble tea season for me all year round. However, my consumption of this stuff probably triples during the summer. Some would say it is a bit of an addiction... but I say it is a way of life. Long story short, I am 
 excited to share this easy bubble tea recipe with you today!
And for even more excitement, I am sharing 
 different ways to make bubble tea:
Plain Bubble Tea
Milk Bubble Tea
Fruity Bubble Tea
So why make bubble tea at home? For starters, it is super easy. Second, it is healthy! Especially for the fruity milk teas. Just think, real fruit vs. fruit syrup. It's really a no brainer. Third, it is much cheaper than paying someone to mix a couple ingredients together. And lastly, the comfort of whipping up a batch of this from your own home means you can relax at home and soak in the sun on your balcony without stepping a foot out of your house or into your car.
What is in Bubble Tea?
Tapioca Pearls
- you will need 
 (also called boba) for this recipe because obviously you can't make bubble tea without the "bubbles". Tapioca pearls can be purchased 
 or at any local Asian grocery store.
 - honey is stirred into the cooked pearls to add that sweet syrupy flavour.
Bubble Tea
tea or flavoured ice tea, lemon slices, and ice cubes.
 - unsweetened black tea or green tea, milk (or almond milk), and ice cubes.
 - fresh fruit, milk (or almond milk), honey, and ice cubes. 
You will also need 
 to be able to accommodate the pearls. These also can also be purchased 
 or at your local Asian grocery store.
How to Make the Best Homemade Bubble Tea (Three Ways)
In a large saucepan, bring 8 cups water to a boil over high heat. Add the pearls (or boba) and stir gently until they begin to float to the top. Turn the heat down to medium and cook for 40 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat, cover, and let sit for another 20 minutes. Drain pearls and transfer to a small bowl. Mix in the honey and fully coat. Set aside for 5 minutes.
. Divide the pearls into three tall glasses. Add in remaining ingredients:
: Add tea (or iced tea), ice, and lemon slice.
: Add tea, milk, and ice.
: Blend fruit, milk, honey, and ice in a 
 until smooth. Pour into glass.
. Add a 
, and enjoy!
FAQ and Tips for Making Tapioca Pearls (Boba)
 Tapioca pearls are best if used within a few hours of cooking (within 4 hours). They will get mushy. Make a smaller batch if you are worried about having extras.
. If you do have extra, you can store them in an 
 at room temperature. Cover and fully coat them in the honey syrup so that they don't stick to each other. But again, you need to consume them within 4 hours before they start to get mushy. Do not store in the refrigerator as they will harden.
This will happen if they are overcooked, or if they have been sitting out for over 4 hours. 
 This will happen if they are undercooked or if stored in the refrigerator. 
More Refreshing Recipes
I would greatly appreciate a comment and rating below, letting me know what you thought of the recipe. You can also snap a picture and tag me on Instagram 
 or share it on the Pinterest pin so that I can follow along.
Three Ways to Make Bubble Tea


 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 


 
 


Description
Quench your thirst with refreshing, healthy, homemade bubble tea. Check out 3 easy, guilt-free recipes today!
Ingredients
:


 cup dried (boba) 


 + 
 honey


:


 tea or flavoured iced tea


lemon slice


-
 ice cubes


:


 unsweetened black tea (or green tea)


 milk or almond milk


-
 ice cubes


:


 fresh fruit of your choice (I used strawberry)


 milk or almond milk


 honey


 ice


Instructions
In a large saucepan, bring 8 cups of water to a boil over high heat. Add the pearls and stir gently until they begin to float to the top.
Turn the heat down to medium and cook for 40 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Remove from heat, cover, and let sit for another 20 minutes.
Drain pearls and transfer to a small bowl. Mix in the honey and fully coat. Set aside for 5 minutes.
Divide the pearls into three tall glasses.
Create any of the following bubble teas:

: Add tea (or iced tea), ice, and lemon slice.
: Add tea, milk, and ice.
: Blend fruit, milk, honey, and ice in a 
 until smooth. Pour into glass.


Add a wide straw, and enjoy!
Notes
 and 
.
 Tapioca pearls are best if used within a few hours of cooking (within 4 hours). They will get mushy. Make a smaller batch if you are worried about having extras.
. If you do have extra, you can store them in an 
 at room temperature. Cover and fully coat them in the honey syrup so that they don't stick to each other. But again, you need to consume them within 4 hours before they start to get mushy. Do not store in the refrigerator as they will harden.
This will happen if they are overcooked, or if they have been sitting out for over 4 hours.
 This will happen if they are undercooked or if stored in the refrigerator.


 
 
 
 
 bubble tea, how to make bubble tea, three ways to make bubble tea, milk bubble tea, fruity bubble tea, strawberry bubble tea, boba
Did you make this recipe?
I'd love to see! Tag me 
 on Instagram.
Stay Updated




Primary Sidebar
Hi, I'm Sam!


Stay Updated




Footer

follow along on instagram

Footer
About Ahead of Thyme
Hello and welcome! I'm Sam -- the founder of Ahead of Thyme, where 
 Here, you will find hundreds of delicious, 
, using quality and wholesome ingredients. So stay a while, browse around, and make something tasty for dinner tonight.










Learn More
Browse
As an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases, at no additional cost to you.
