









Whole Foods and Vegetarian Recipe Blog






































































































































































Ratatouille
 
 Ratatouille is a classic end-of-summer French stew that’s fun to say (rat-tuh-TOO-ee) and fun to make. It’s packed with fresh produce: tomatoes, eggplant, zucchini and yellow squash, and bell pepper.
This summer, we sampled authentic French ratatouille in Provence. I liked some ratatouille more than others, so I vowed to come up with my own favorite ratatouille recipe when I came home. Today is the day!
 Each vegetable is cooked in olive oil until it’s properly tender. In the end, all of the ingredients are combined and simmered to meld the flavors.
 Ratatouille combines a large volume of late-summer vegetables that have different cook times. If you tried to throw them all into a pot at once, none of the veggies would have a chance to caramelize, the eggplant would fall apart by the time the zucchini is tender, and your ratatouille would probably never meet its full potential.
 We’re going to 
 the vegetables until they’re deliciously caramelized on the edges and a little dehydrated (no squeaky or mushy zucchini here). Then, we’ll add those perfectly roasted veggies to a simmering fresh tomato sauce.
 My husband says it’s the best he’s ever had. It’s also easier to make than proper stovetop ratatouille, since it requires less time standing over the stove. Hooray!
5 Reasons to Love Ratatouille
 If you come home from the farmers’ market with too much, make ratatouille.
 Even if you don’t typically love eggplant or summer squash, I bet you’ll enjoy this ratatouille.
 Just choose your accompaniments accordingly.
 It tastes even better the next day and reheats beautifully. (You can also freeze extra ratatouille for later.)
Ratatouille Ingredients
This recipe features traditional ratatouille ingredients, which are:
Fresh Tomatoes
 are key for making ratatouille that tastes fresh and lively, not dull and heavy. We’ll grate the tomatoes (or blitz the in the food processor) and cook them with 
 and 
 to make an irresistible tomato sauce.
I tried this recipe with canned tomatoes and it didn’t taste nearly as nice. You can do it if you have to (use one large 28-ounce can of crushed tomatoes), but fresh tomatoes really are best.
Eggplant
 is known for being difficult to prepare, but it’s easy to roast! No salting necessary. The oven takes care of everything.
Zucchini & Yellow Squash
I love the visual combination of green 
 and 
. If you want to use two of one type instead of both, no problem.
Bell Pepper
Take your pick from 
.
Olive Oil
 deserves a shout-out. We’re only using as much as necessary, so this ratatouille is not greasy like some can be.
Tossing the vegetables lightly in oil raises their surface temperature, which helps us achieve those delicious caramelized edges. Finally, stirring a teaspoon of olive oil into the pot offers some extra richness and herbal flavor. Don’t skip it!
Fresh Basil & Seasonings
We’ll finish off our ratatouille with a handful of chopped 
, which livens up our stew with fresh flavor. We’ll also add a sprinkle of 
—crumble it between your fingers as you add it to wake up the flavor. Then, add 
 and 
 until your ratatouille tastes completely wonderful.
How to Make Ratatouille
You’ll find the full rundown in the recipe below. Don’t be intimidated by the length of the recipe—it’s not hard. Here’s the gist:
Prep your veggies and preheat the oven.
Toss the eggplant with olive oil and salt on one baking sheet, and the squash and bell pepper on another baking sheet. Arrange the vegetables in an even layer. (Using two pans gives the vegetables room to breathe and lets us split the veggies by cook times.)
Bake both pans in the oven at once, stirring halfway. The eggplant will finish sooner than the other pan.
Meanwhile, make a simple tomato sauce on the stovetop. Stir the roasted vegetables into the simmering tomato sauce as they’re ready.
Lastly, add fresh basil and seasonings. Serve immediately, or let it cool to room temperature before refrigerating for later.
Watch How to Make Ratatouille
Ratatouille Serving Suggestions
Ok, one more reason to love ratatouille—you can serve it so many different ways! Here are a few ideas:


Serve ratatouille as a stew, with crusty bread on the side. Toasted if you wish.


Serve it over freshly cooked pasta. So good.


Leftovers make a great breakfast. Just add cooked eggs: 
, scrambled or poached.


Turn it into an appetizer by piling spoonfuls onto 
.


You might enjoy a sprinkle of grated Parmesan or mozzarella over any of the above.
Suggested Equipment
You probably have the proper equipment in your kitchen already. Here’s what you’ll need (these are affiliate links):


 for roasting your vegetables. These pans (called “half-sheet pans”) are the perfect size for roasting one pound of diced eggplant without overlap. They are what all professional recipe developers use, they’re inexpensive, and I swear by them.


 or 
 for breaking down the fresh tomatoes.


 or 
 for the stovetop.


 It’s a little labor intensive, as all good ratatouilles are, but I hope it proves 100 percent worth the effort.
 Here are a few of my favorites:












Ratatouille


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Learn how to make the best French ratatouille with this foolproof recipe! The trick is to roast the vegetables, then add them to a simmering tomato sauce. Recipe yields 4 generous or 6 more modest servings.
Ingredients


 pounds ripe red tomatoes (
 medium or 
 large)


 medium eggplant (
 pound), diced into ½-inch cubes


 large red, orange, or yellow bell pepper (about 
), cut into ¾-inch squares


 medium-to-large zucchini (about 
), diced into ½-inch cubes


 large yellow squash (about 
), diced into ½-inch cubes


 + 
 extra-virgin olive oil, divided


 fine sea salt, divided, more to taste


 medium yellow onion, chopped


 cloves garlic, pressed or minced


 chopped fresh basil


 red pepper flakes, more or less to taste


 dried oregano


Freshly ground black pepper, to taste


Instructions
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees Fahrenheit with one rack in the middle of the oven and one in the upper third of the oven. Line two large, rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper for easy clean-up, if desired.
To prepare your tomatoes, remove any woody cores with a paring knife. Then, grate them on the large holes of a box grater into a bowl (this is easiest if you hold the tomato at a diagonal), and chop any remaining tomato skin. Or, blitz the tomatoes in a food processor until they are broken into a frothy pulp. Set aside.
On one baking sheet, toss the diced eggplant with 2 tablespoons of the olive oil until lightly coated. Arrange the eggplant in a single layer across the pan, sprinkle with ¼ teaspoon of the salt, and set aside.
On the other baking sheet, toss the bell pepper, zucchini and yellow squash with 1 tablespoon of olive oil and ¼ teaspoon salt. Arrange the vegetables in a single layer. Place the eggplant pan on the middle rack and the other vegetables on the top rack. Set the timer for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, warm 2 tablespoons of the olive oil in a large Dutch oven or soup pot over medium heat. Add the onion and ¼ teaspoon salt. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the onion is tender and caramelizing on the edges, about 8 to 10 minutes.
Add the garlic, stir, and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the tomatoes, and use a wooden spoon or sturdy silicone spatula to stir any browned bits stuck to the bottom of the pan into the mixture. Reduce the heat to medium-low, or as necessary to maintain a gentle simmer.
Once 15 minutes are up, remove both pans from the oven, stir, and redistribute the contents of each evenly across the pans. This time, place the eggplant on the top rack and other vegetables on the middle rack.
Bake until the eggplant is nice and golden on the edges, about 10 more minutes (the eggplant will be done sooner than the rest). Remove the eggplant from the oven, and carefully stir the eggplant into the simmering tomato sauce.
Let the squash and bell pepper pan continue to bake until the peppers are caramelized, about 5 to 10 more minutes. Then, transfer the contents of the pan into the simmering sauce. Continue simmering for 5 more minutes to give the flavors time to meld.
Remove the pot from the heat. Stir in 1 teaspoon olive oil, the fresh basil and red pepper flakes. Crumble the dried oregano between your fingers as you drop it into the pot. Season to taste with additional salt (I usually add ¼ teaspoon more) and black pepper.
Serve in bowls, perhaps with a little drizzle of olive oil, additional chopped basil, or black pepper on top (all optional). Like all stews, this ratatouille’s flavor improves as it cools. It’s even better reheated the next day. Ratatouille keeps well in the refrigerator, covered, for 4 days, or for several months in the freezer.
Notes
▸ Nutrition Information
 
By Kathryne Taylor
Vegetable enthusiast. Dog lover. I'm probably making a big mess in my Kansas City kitchen right now. 
 
 &diam 
 &diam 
Never miss a new recipe
Subscribe to our email newsletter! As a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (It's all free.)
Reader Interactions
Comments
Leave a comment below: 
Your comments make my day. Thank you! If you have a question, please skim the comments section—you might find an immediate answer there. If you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too.
 
 
 
 








 
Amazing! Made this for dinner a while back with some toasted bread and it was delicious. I had also added some chickpeas for extra protein. The leftovers made a great brunch with a few fried eggs. I plan to make it again tonight, great cold weather meal!








 
I added garbanzo beans, too, Bridget, and to start my slow cooker party, I placed 3 yams, cut into chunks (in fact, every vegetable was chunked, not diced) into my crockpot on high for an hour or so. 
Meanwhile, I chunked the remaining ingredients (the R5, I call them): vine-ripened tomatoes, eggplant, onion, pepper and zucchini; added some celery, a can of tomato paste, a 28oz can of crushed tomatoes, basil, oregano, thyme, salt, pepper, olive oil, crushed garlic and a few bay leaves. 
After a five-hour simmer on low, I stirred it up, removed the inner pot from the outer heating element, and let it cool a bit before placing it into the fridge for a day to cool completely. Then I filled containers for freezing and/or to give to neighbors.
I say the yams made all the difference in terms of added texture and just the right amount of sweetness.








 
I use more garlic then the recipe called for and I salt and peppered the eggplant, vegetables and sauce. The recipe is AWESOME. I will share with others and make again.

I recommend using fresh vine ripe tomatoes.










 
Do you think I could use crushed tomatoes as a quicker option than fresh?








 
I tried this recipe with canned tomatoes and it didn’t taste nearly as nice. You can do it if you have to (use one large 28-ounce can of crushed tomatoes), but fresh tomatoes really are best.








 
Hi Kate! I am a huge fan of your hearty and healthy vegetarian recipes. I am planning to make this one. Quick question – I have a butternut squash. Would that work instead of summer squash in this recipe?

Thank you!








 
Hi Mira! I recommend what is listed, but that could work as a replacement too.


















 
This is absolutely delicious and love that it has so many vegetables in it. So easy to make too, it’s going to become one of my regular lunches 








 
Wonderful to hear, Amy! Thank you for taking the time to review.










 
Although, I found recipes that shows the presentation in round slices what it is very nice , this is a wonderful recipe.






 
Oh my God… I have been making you ratatouille for many years. Never thought about roasting the vegetables first. Makes a huge difference truly delicious thanks for teaching an old dog new tricks






 
I’ve made this ratatouille a couple times and it’s spectacular!! Highly recommend it- worth the time invested in this dish.








 
Thank you, Lacey! I’m happy to hear you loved it.










 
I made this today to use up an eggplant. I made it with canned tomatoes since the fresh ones aren’t very good here in November and it’s still amazing. I can’t stop eating! I was planning to serve this over pasta but may end up just eating it alone with bread.






 
Thank you, Kate! This is such a great and healthy recipe for our weekly meal prep – I doubled the recipe and cooked 2 lbs of pasta to create 10 meals for me and my husband (we freeze 2 days worth of meals to keep the flavors fresh).






 
After over indulging during the Thanksgiving weekend, I wanted a hearty but healthy meal. This hit the spot! I’ve made ratatouille before, but this recipe was the best. Roasting the veggies added a depth of flavor – hubby called it a “keeper”. I will definitely make this again.






 
This is hands down the best ratatouille I have ever had. Roasting the vegetables brings out such wonderful flavor. The tomatoes in my store this time of year were looking rather sad so I admit to using canned San Marzanos (blitzed in the processor). I can’t wait until fresh tomatoes are in season because as delicious as this was, I think it will be over the top with fresh tomatoes. Thanks for another great recipe, Kate!








 
Thank you for your vote of confidence, Heather! I appreciate your review.










 
Oh wow! Fantastic recipe! I followed it mostly, except my squash took a lot longer to cook (I think my oven runs cool), as did the eggplant. But the eggplant lends a creaminess to the stew while the squash stays intact. I didn’t have enough tomatoes, so I did half fresh, half a can of stewed, turned out awesome. Delicious! 10/10!






 
I made this for lunch for my mum and my boy and we all devoured it… delicious 






 
Delicious – I used three tomatoes and one can of Rotel diced tomatoes and chilis, then added a chopped stalk of celery to the tomatoes. It was a nice blend of textures, the chewy eggplant vs. the crunch of the celery! Served over rice.








 
Thank you for sharing, Debbie! I appreciate your review.










 
Lovely and lively recipe! Delicious.

Smelled great too!

Have already made a second batch.
I opted to use 3 baking sheets. 1 for eggplant, 1 for squash and zucchini, and 1 for bell pepper as they all seem to cook at a different pace.
As for leftovers, use as base for Shakshuka.

Amazing! Perfect combination.

Just heat leftovers, make a well(s), crack eggs into wells, poach.

(See Cookie + Kate Shakshuka recipe for cooking / poaching variation)








 
Thank you for sharing, Andrea!










 
Thanks for sharing – my mom is French and my grandmother was Italian so I have a frame of reference for a good one and this was one of the best. Two tips – sometimes the tomatoes can render the dish a little on the acidic side – if so I may add a tiny bit of brown sugar or natural raw sugar. Secondly, if you really want the best flavor, I find it best to let this sit overnight in the fridge. You may have to fend family off, but everyones patience will be rewarded! It really does make a difference.








 
I love your tips! Thank you for sharing.










 
Excellent, quick and easy recipe…I am from from India and although I myself am not vegetarian I make this often for my vegetarian friends who love it and find it very healthy and exotic..

good to serve with bread, pasta or plain white rice






 
it’s my first ratatouille and it’s really great . thank you !!!








 
I’m glad you loved it, Peter!










 
My daughter is on a FODMAP-restricted diet trying to find her food triggers, and we have been struggling to find tasty recipes that don’t have onions and garlic. Your idea of roasting the vegetables first was brilliant! I had to leave out the onions and garlic, but I tossed the the other veggies in garlic-infused oil before roasting, and the result was delicious. I also peeled and roasted extra tomatoes to add depth. Thank you!!








 
I’m happy to hear it worked for you and your daughter! I appreciate your review.










 
Thank you for this lovely recipe. I can taste it right now, and my mouth is watering before I even start it. Question. Are there other veggies that can be added without changing the recipe radically. I will have to use Pomi canned tomatoes as any tomatoes found in our local stores are disgusting any time of the year. Will serve with almond/coconut flour bread.






 
OMGosh! This was killer!! I misread the recipe about the eggplant. I used 2 instead of one. That’s ok, I love eggplant! What a great idea roasting the veggies. Yrs ago, a restaurant had ratatouille with feta and kalamata olives added. Which I like to add to mine. I also serve it on roasted spaghetti squash. This recipe is a keeper. Thank you for this tasty recipe!








 
Thank you for reporting back, Phyllis! I’m excited you loved it.










 
This recipe sounds great. One question re red pepper flakes. Are they chillie or paprika or something else?








 
Hi! Red pepper flakes is crushed red pepper. I hope that clarifies it some!








 
Thanks Kate. BTW I couldn’t wait for your reply to try the recipe. It’s a winner!








 
I’m happy you tried it! Thank you for reporting back, Eugenia.


















 
I’m adding this to my monthly meal rotation. Absolutely fabulous, left me speechless.






 
I never leave comments, but holy-smokes! This recipe was absolutely delicious! By far the best

Ratatouille recipe I’ve ever used! Thank you!








 
I’m glad you did, Lisa! Thank you for your review.










 
I don’t cook much — this was the first time I’ve ever even handled an eggplant. This recipe was so easy to follow and turned out so good!! The video was really helpful to see how each step was supposed to look like.






 
What type of tomatoes are best to use for this recipe? Roma or vine ones or something else?
Thanks! I have made this recipe 4 times and everyone that tries it loves it.








 
Hi! Whatever ones you find look the best. I use Roma when I created this recipe.










 
I have been making ratatouille for years, using a variety of methods. Yours is by far the most delicious. It takes one of my favorite foods from “great” to WOW! I made a double batch, froze half of the roasted vegetables (excluding onions, tomatoes and herbs/spices). I can then add the roasted vegetables to the freshly prepared stove-top ingredients. Which also lets me vary the flavoring with each batch. My favorite is Baharat (which I get pre-mixed from a local spice house) to make what I call “Baharatatouille” –with added chickpeas– perfect over pearl couscous and topped with feta. Of note: your recipe is fantastic when prepared exactly as you have written it – with fresh basil.






 
Absolutely divine. Made as written and it was perfection — might go 5 minutes less on extra time for bell peppers/zucchini, mine got a tad scorched (but still tasted great). Thanks for this — I’d never had ratatouille before, but my boyfriend is a vegetarian so I’m branching out. I’m in love! (with the ratatouille :)






 
Best Ratatouille I’ve ever made! My picky teenagers came back for seconds! I served it with bow tie pasta at my daughter’s request. Excellent!!








 
That’s great to hear, Donna!










 
Hi Kate! I am a huge fan of your hearty and healthy vegetarian recipes. I am planning to make this one. Quick question – I have a butternut squash. Would that work instead of summer squash in this recipe?

Thank you!






 
Easy to make and delicious! I will definitely be making this again.








 
Wonderful to hear, Maria! Thank you for your review.










 
Outrageous!!!! The basil at the end….. WOW!!!! Definitely worth the time and effort!!! Thank you!








 
I’m happy you love it, Kristine! Thank you for your review.










 
A bit work intensive but wonderfully delicious! Unfortunately I can’t make it again as the eggplant and tomatoes cause the eczema on my hands to flare up.








 
I’m glad you you enjoyed it! Sorry to hear about your eczema.










 
This is delicious. My normally vegetable adverse 3 yo helped to make this and ate a huge bowl of veggies!






 
Followed your recipe and it was so delicious! I’ve never had ratatouille before, but after watching the movie I had to make it. Thank you for your time in such a detailed and delicious recipe.






 
No, not as good as what i usually make. Sorry.








 
I’m sorry you didn’t love it. What did you feel like was missing?










 
I usually love your recipes buuuttt…………. I have read this recipe up and down and I am missing the instructions, or even a link of instructions to the tomato sauce. How many tomatoes? How long do they cook for? It seems like a very important part of the recipe








 
Hi! Use the jump to recipe at the top and it will take you right there. All the ingredients are listed before the instructions.










 
I loved this and I made it on Thursday. Now it’s Monday and I still have leftovers.Is it too late to eat it?








 
Hi! Use your best judgement and check for spoilage. Sorry for my delay!










 
I found your recipe only 3 weeks ago, but tonight will be the third time I’m making it! I “veg” it up with more tomato, an extra zucchini, and I add 2 small sweet peppers (in addition to the bell pepper) as well as extra herbs to give me more for food prep meals. I’m considering adding mushrooms the next time I make this, but tonight just the standard, albeit additional veggies. Great recipe!








 
That’s wonderful! Thank you for sharing, Chris.










 
This is a wonderful ratatouille recipe. It took 2of us 2 1/2 hours to cut up all of the veggies roasting them making the tomato sauce. It always takes me longer to make a recipe the first time. Next time I think I can put it together in a couple of hours from start to finish. I love these kinds of dishes and this one was great.






 
I love this recipe usually I cook it in pot like a stew but this way all the veggies keep their integrity will make it often thank you






 
Hi,

I love Ratatouille. I make it every few months but when I saw your recipe I was really excited to make it. I’ve always loved roasted veggies and I really don’t know why I never thought of roasting for this recipe. Thank heavens you did! :)

I have Celiac so I’ve been gluten-free since 2007. Vegan recipes have saved my life since I’ve always been anemic.

Please keep giving us your amazing recipes!








 
Thank you for sharing! I’m glad you loved it, Sherry.










 
So, sooooogood. And easy. Thank you. I happened to have all the ingredients (from Misfits, mostly). I didn’t have fresh basil, but it didn’t matter – I used dry. The flavor was amazing. My adult son told me I should make it regularly. 
 (We have a local spice shop – Gryphon Ridge – and I used their Mexican Oregano that I had on hand. A nice, flavorful bonus.)






 
I love this recipe! I love it so much better than the one that had slices of veggies, plus this one tastes better. Thank you!








 
You’re welcome! Thank you for your review.










 
Our family LOVED this recipe. So delicious and healthy too. Instructions are very clear and simple to follow (thank you for that). The result was superb. It’s now a staple. Thanks so much!






 
I used a little Pinot to the tomatoes and followed the recipe. Outrageous. It’s now my favorite dinner. Thank you






 
Wonderful recipe! I have been making a huge batch of this ratatouille at least once a month since I found it a year ago! A bowl of rice with ratatouille, topped with a fried egg (a poached egg when I feel inspired) has become our favorite breakfast menu! I came back today to make sure I have the right proportions for the ingredients. Today I will add a cauliflower to the mix along with my three eggplants. :):) Thank you so much~~~ <3








 
I love that! Thank you for your review.










 
I can’t say for certain this is the best ratatouille recipe because I’ve never made another one. I made this one first and stopped searching for more. So delicious. Freezes great. With eggs or toast or on its own, it’s perfect.






 
I forgot how much I enjoy ratatouille. My da use to make it, but all in a pot. Oven roasting brings a lot to the recipe.

I salted the eggplant and rinsed out of habit, and roasted in the cast iron.

Used a T of butter with the EVOO for the saute/sweat. Sprinkled a bit of turmeric and TJs Umami blend in the whole pot.

1/4c of red wine as I always sauce with some alcohol.

Since there are no fresh tomatoes this time of year in the cold north, canned work just fine. Great by itself, as a topping to pasta or ravis.

Tmrw it’ll go on top a pizza. Yum diggity.!

good one!






 
It’s look so colourful! It’s not difficult of course. It was a new for me making this meal roasting every veggie separately. So if they say it’s more tasty, l try to do that.






 
This is spectacular! Since it is several months early for truly beautiful tomatoes (in March!), I substituted two 28 ounce cans of Yellow Gold whole tomatoes and pureed them in the food processor.






 
Loved this recipe! Best Ratatouille recipe I’ve found. I added a scant tablespoon of roasted tomato paste to thicken it more as mine was a bit thin. Roasting the vegetables really made the dish. I didn’t use olive oil as listed. I poured a tiny bit of oil on my hands and tossed the veggies with my hands. I also cooked my onions in water instead of oil. I know olive oil may give more taste but I have cut out fats and oils as much as possible from my diet. I have to say my husband LOVED this ratatouille too! Thank you for this recipe and other recipes I have made of yours. You are a food artisan!








 
I’m happy you hear you loved it, Leslie! Thank you for sharing how you approached it.










 
Can I make this ahead?








 
Yes! This is great leftover.








 
Thank you














 
Amazing delicious recipe!








 
Thank you, Pat!










 
Re: ratatouille… What, no rosemary?






 
I have your first cookbook and absolutely love the recipes. I’m making your Ratatouille tonight and I know it will be a winner. Please write more cookbooks.






 
Just made this tonight. It was excellent!






 
Made this today because I couldn’t find my previous favorite ratatouille recipe. The flavors in this are outstanding! Roasting the veggies is definitely the way to go. Thank you so much.








 
Thank you! I’m excited you enjoyed it, Ruth.










 
Omg! Made this last night and just had it for lunch. This is the BEST Ratatouille I’ve ever prepared! I did add a bit of sugar to balance the acidity of the tomatoes but followed your recipe. I just shared the recipe with my sons.

Thank you for this awesome recipe!








 
Thank you! I’m happy you enjoyed it.










 
I make this recipe once every few weeks. It’s a household favorite! I even blend some up to make “tomato sauce” for my toddler who hates veggies lol. On occasion, garnish with goat cheese, delicious!






 
This is delicious!








 
I’m glad you loved it, Lisa! Thank you for your review.










 
I’ve often been disappointed by ratatouille as it usually comes out underpowered in the flavour department. Roasting the veges is a genius idea and transformed the dish. I was also surprised how much difference using fresh tomatoes made. Complete winner!








 
Hooray! I’m glad you weren’t disappointed by this recipe, Sasha. I appreciate your review.










 
Even with canned tomatoes it was delicious. I loved it, can’t wait to try it with plump fresh tomatoes. Thank you.








 
You’re welcome, Pam! I’m happy it worked out for you.










 
WOW the finished dish is outstanding! Such a delight to find a recipe and have it surpass your expectations. What attracted me to it was the fact that the layout, pictures and ability to follow the instructions as written turned on all the lights to say YES to trying it. thank you. Carol






 
Love this recipe. Eating ratatouille reminds me of my childhood. This is a Beautiful and simple, healthy and tasty dish that I enjoy serving nice and hot over a bed of couscous and crusty bread in one hand.

Sometimes I’ll add beans, and i add a bit of vege bouillon for extra flavoring.






 
Best ratatouille ever!!

I got lazy at the end and roasted the onions and garlic with the vegetables, and it turned out great!

I can’t wait to have leftovers today!








 
Wonderful! I’m happy this was a hit, Carol. Thank you for your review.










 
This was absolutely delicious! It took longer to roast the vegetables and I was wondering if it should be cooked longer after everything was mixed together. So I tried it and it was great! It’s so easy and so good. I used fresh tomatoes which are not in season here but they were fine in the recipe. I served it with some french bread.






 
Doubled the recipe and shared it with other family members. DELICIOUS! Everyone enjoyed it. Thsnk you for sharing.






 
Just superb! Thank you so much for posting this recipe, but I think you need to adjust the number of portions this makes. I made it today for myself and 2 other normal size people (2 of whom are definitely not big eaters), and between us, we scarfed down The Whole Thing in one sitting and still wanted more. Roasting the veggies gives so much depth of flavor!








 
I’m glad you enjoyed it! Thank you for your feedback, Diane.










 
Excellent recipe! It was delicious over polenta which was made with Parmesan cheese.








 
Thank you for sharing how you served this, Lisa! I appreciate it.










 
Great recipe and very easy. We ladle it over grits for a vegetarian meal. We love it!








 
Thank you, Megan!










 
Ratatouille was one of the dishes I made most often when I was in my twenties but I never made it this way—by roasting. This recipe is so delish. I’m a bit lazy and didn’t grate the tomato; just chopped it very well on a meat carving board so I wouldn’t lose the juices… It truly came out perfect. I’m obsessed with smoked paprika so I added 2 pinches. I also added 1/2 teaspoon thyme. YUMMY! I will never go back to the old method again!








 
Hooray! Thank you for sharing, Jocelyn.










 
Oh my goodness!This was delicious,I had it for dinner and breakfast








 
I love that, Njeri! Thank you for making it and taking the time to review.










 
I am inundated with squash yet no eggplant. It seems this would be fine without…thoughts?








 
Hi Eve, it wouldn’t be traditional. But, you could try it. Let me know what you think!










 
What a great idea to roast all the veggies in the oven. I love ratatouille but just hated standing over the stove for ages, especially since you can’t fry them all at once. The tomato mixture is simmering nicely. I was too lazy to go downstairs and get a new pack of oregano so I just took some sprigs of fresh thyme from the garden as well as fresh basil and parsley. Instead of chili flakes, I am a huge fan of the French “pigment d’espelette”. Do you know it? A slightly spicy touch but not overwhelming. Thanks again. Thinking of adding a spoonful of balsamic vinegar and lemon rind as Jamie Oliver does but haven’t decided yet. I think made your potato wedges and sweet potato wedges as well before. If it was your idea with soaking the sweet potatoes for an hour prior to cooking, genius!






 
This was made for dinner and leftovers.

Per the recipe used vine ripened tomatoes. They were pulsed in the food processor. Used extra garlic because that is what we like. Added some Homemade mild Italian sausage for additional protein.

The finished dish was fantastic. Amazing flavor which was even better the next day.

Served with freshly grated Parmigiano-Reggiano cheese and homemade toasted Italian garlic bread.

Has become part of the current meal rotation. Plenty of farm-stand fresh vegetables available.






 
Recipe is amazing, made it several times. My wife and family enjoy it.

You look amazing, must keep a healthy diet.

Thanks for the great recipe








 
You’re welcome, Ralph! I’m happy your family enjoys it.










 
Not my first Cookie&Kate recipe and won’t be my last. I was gifted eggplant, pepper and onions from neighbors garden. Had to make ratatouille with other summer yummies. Your advice to pre-roast in separate pans was the best and so glad I ‘listened’. Thanks for yet another healthy and fab meal.

Cheers and oceans of joy to you and yours.








 
That’s great! Thank you, Cheryl.










 
Every bit as good a recipe as it’s 5-star rating promised, and then some. The explanation for why roasting separately first was very helpful. And the tip on using a food processor for the tomatoes (for me, less than 10 seconds in 2 batches in the Ninja) was a revelation. Should have taken picture. Served it in a surrounding oval of vegetable around a roast pork loin, and it received stellar comments.








 
I’m glad it met your expectations and the tips were helpful, Jon! Thank you for sharing.










 
Excellent recipe! I made it for a sit down dinner for 10 friends. They loved it!! I grilled chicken sausage and placed the links on top of the ratatouille and sprinkled Parmesan cheese over it. Winner, winner, ratatouille is for dinner. Taking it to a dinner tonight.








 
I’m glad this was a hit, Syrenthia! Thank you for your review.








 
Teaching my boy to cook. So I taught him this. Turned out real good. Thanks for the recipe.








 
How fun! Thank you for your review, John.


















 
This is honestly the best tasting and easiest ratatouille I’ve ever made.








 
I love that, Amy! Thank you for sharing.










 
This is delicious, better than ratatouille made entirely in the pot because the veggies maintain their taste and integrity. They are not just boiled. This method of grating the tomatoes is a new one to me and I am happy to learn it. It worked beautifully! This didn’t take too long to put together, either! Thank you!








 
I’m happy you enjoyed it, Julie! I appreciate your review.










 
Just made this for supper; we will definitely be making this again. It was wonderful, and makes such a great use of extra garden veggies. Going to try different things with it, corn or beans etc. Still like meat with a meal but what a great side! Thank you for the recipe 


Primary Sidebar
Don’t miss a new recipe
POPULAR RECIPES
Footer
Stay in Touch
Our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special Cookie + Kate updates! 
 ⋄ 
 ⋄ 
 ⋄ 
 ⋄ 
 ⋄ 
Cookie and Kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. 
© Cookie and Kate 2010 - 2021. All rights reserved. Cookie and Kate is a registered trademark of Cookie and Kate LLC.
 ⋄ 
 ⋄ 
 ⋄ 
 ⋄ 
Never miss a recipe
Subscribe to our newsletter! 
Always free • Unsubscribe anytime
No, thanks.
