















The BEST Red Velvet Cake












Over the last few months, I’ve shared my favorite 
 and 
 recipes with you. And today I have one more that’s perfect for Valentine’s Day – this homemade red velvet cake recipe!
Red velvet is such a unique cake because it has a vanilla flavor but also a hint of chocolate. It can also be hard to get just right because it should be buttery, yet stay moist. This recipe delivers all of that and it’s incredibly delicious too!
I’m also sharing everything you need to know
how to perfect this cake. Including how to make a 9×13 cake or cupcakes and some step-by-step pictures to help you along the way!
To make this red velvet cake, you’ll start by whisking together your dry ingredients: cake flour, unsweetened cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. I suggest using cake flour because it has a lower protein content than all-purpose flour which creates a softer, lighter cake. When it comes to cake flour, two of my favorite brands are Pillsbury Softasilk and Swans Down.
There’s also 1/4 cup of unsweetened cocoa powder in this cake
so the cake isn’t super chocolatey
 but it has a hint of chocolate th
 in red velvet cakes. Once you’ve whisked together the dry ingredients I suggest sifting them as well to remove any lumps of cocoa powder and help keep the cake light.
Then, mix up the wet ingredients starting with some unsalted butter and granulated sugar. I suggest creaming the butter and sugar together for about 4-5 minutes. 
Creaming the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy incorporates more air into your cake batter creating a softer, lighter cake.
Once the butter and sugar are creamed together, you’ll beat in two eggs until well combined. Then mix in the rest of the wet ingredients
 some oil, red food coloring, vanilla extract, and distilled white vinegar. The oil helps to keep the cake incredibly moist, so I use a combination of butter and oil in this cake.
Once you’ve mixed up the wet ingredients, you’ll alternate mixing the dry ingredients in three additions with some buttermilk. Alternating the dry ingredients with the buttermilk helps to prevent overmixing the cake batter which can lead to a denser cake. If you don’t have any buttermilk on hand, you can make your own using my 
.
Once the cake batter is mixed up it will be a beautiful bright red color like the picture above. Then, just divide the batter between two 9-inch cake pans and bake them for about 30 minutes. If you want to make it easier to get the cake layers out of your pans I suggest using parchment paper. I use 
 from Wilton and LOVE them, they’re perfect for this recipe too!
Once the cake layers are baked and cooled, you’ll mix up the frosting. I used my 
 for this cake and increased the amount to have enough to frost it. If you want to try another frosting my 
 would be delicious too!
Then, just level your cakes and frost it however you like. I used the 
 piping tip for the swirls on top of this cake.


Be sure that all of your 
 before getting starting.


Make sure to 
 to remove any lumps of cocoa powder. This will also help to keep the cake soft and light.


I suggest 
. Creaming the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy incorporates more air into your cake batter creating a softer, lighter cake.


, this will help to prevent over mixing the cake batter.


Red Velvet Cake
Ingredients
For the red velvet cake:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the cream cheese frosting:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions
To make the red velvet cake:
To make the cream cheese frosting:
To assemble the cake:
Notes
free email bonus

5 SECRETS TO BAKING LIKE A PRO

Comments




 
 

I love all of your recipes, thanks! I just made this and it looks good, but I don’t think my layers look as tall as your picture. How tall are each of your layers? Thanks!








 
 
Thank you, Heather! So glad you’re enjoying the recipes! I’m not sure exactly how tall they are, since it’s been a while since I’ve made this cake. But, they do rise to the top of my 9-inch cake pans which are about 1.5 inches deep.










 
 
I followed the recipe, the taste was good the only problem is that my red velvet didn’t turn up red.

What was the reason?








 
 
I’m not sure, it could be the food coloring that you used. I really like McCormick’s red food coloring, it’s what I always use in this cake.










 
 

I used this recipe and followed every step to precision. Needless to say the cake was amazing!! Thank you so much for sharing!!






 
 

WoW! The perfect red velvet cake! I made a rv cake once before and it was disappointing. So when I was asked to make a rv cake for my best friend’s grandson’s birthday, I was like…uh okay. His birthday was in May. He and his family are still talking about how delicious the cake taste. Thank you, Danielle. All of your steps, hints and advice help make this a foolproof cake. Word has spread, so I’ve got another request for this cake.






 
 
Hello Danielle, 
If I wanted to make this a 10 inch cake how much more should I add of ingredients ??








 
 
I would multiply the recipe by 1.5 and use any extra batter to make cupcakes.










 
 
Dear Daniele

I will try to make your cake for my sons birthday

I never used food Colour and searched for red velvet colour, the recommended colour is a gel / paste , I am not sure how much I should use , you mentioned liquid.

I would really appreciate if you could help me with this 
Best regards

Lilly








 
 
I’d recommend using liquid if possible, but it’s fine to use gel food coloring. If you do use gel, I’d start with 2 to 3 teaspoons then as more as needed.










 
 

I baked this fabulous cake for my daughter’s birthday in June. It was so delicious that I am using this recipe for her wedding cake next weekend for 100 guests. I have tried other recipes for Red Velvet but none come close to your luscious recipe. Kudos, Danielle!








 
 
Thank you, Jean! So glad you loved the recipe!










 
 

Hi made rv today and its the best recipe I’ve tried, but my frosting is too runny, any idea what I’ve done wrong ?








 
 
Did you happen to use cream cheese spread that’s in a tub? If so, that can make your frosting runny. I recommend using a brick/block of cream cheese.










 
 
Does the cream cheese frosting recipe make enough to decorate the cake ? I love the swirls you added and would like to do that, too. Thank you.








 
 
Yes! The amount listed in the recipe are the same measurements I used to decorate the cake in the pictures.










 
 
Can we substitute natural cocoa to dutched processed?








 
 
I recommend sticking with natural cocoa powder in this cake to ensure that it rises properly.










 
 

This recipe is great! I just made it today. I was looking for a red velvet cake and this turned out so yummy! The cake itself tastes amazing! I ended up using coconut oil and left the food coloring out and subbed beet juice for 1/3 of the buttermilk, but still used a cup of buttermilk!! Turned out great, thank you!






 
 

Hi! May I ask hows the sweetness of this recipe? I don’t really like it when cakes are too sweet so how can I adjust the recipe to my liking if ever? Thanks <3








 
 
I don’t personally think the cake is too sweet, I always try to find a good balance with sweetness in my recipes. If you’re worried about it, you can reduce the sugar slightly in both the cake and frosting.






Leave a Reply 
 Required fields are marked 
 
 
 
 
 




5 Secrets to Baking Like a Pro

Learn my secrets that make baking from scratch easy.
Popular Posts


















































Categories
What’s Trending
5 Secrets to Baking Like a Pro
I believe that anyone, even beginners, can bake amazing desserts! 
As seen in:
























free email bonus
Learn my secrets that make baking from scratch 
