































































































































































































































































































































































































































 




 




 




 












































Make Tom Khaa, Easy Tom Yum Soup with Coconut Milk




 


The Spruce / Cara Cormack

Aside from being the most famous of all Thai soups, Tom Yum offers many health benefits due to its potent combination of herbs and spices. With its collection of ingredients like 
, 
, lime leaves, and 
, this Thai favorite is said to have both immune-boosting and anti-inflammatory properties. Making it a wonderful go-to option when fighting off a cold or stomach ailments.


This version of the soup includes coconut milk (which officially makes it "Tom Khaa"), adding both richness and flavor while still keeping the soup super healthy.  Spoon the soup over steamed white rice if you like; this is how the dish is traditionally eaten in Thailand.

Ingredients




 
 






 
 






 
 
, minced






 
 
, or to taste






 






 
 fresh 
, thinly sliced






 
 or large 
, peeled






 
 or red 
, sliced






 
 
, optional






 
 
, or to taste






 
 






roughly chopped, garnish




Steps to Make It



Gather the ingredients.










Prepare the lemongrass: Finely mince the lower third of the stalk and keep the upper part whole.








In a deep cooking pot, pour the chicken stock and turn heat to medium-high. Add prepared lemongrass to the pot, including upper parts of the stalk you didn't mince. Boil 5 to 6 minutes, or until fragrant.










Reduce heat slightly to achieve a nice simmer. Add garlic, chili, lime leaves, and mushrooms to broth. Continue simmering for another 5 minutes.










Add shrimp, bell pepper, and cherry tomatoes (if using). Simmer 5 to 6 minutes, or until the shrimp are pink and plump.










Turn down the heat to low and add coconut milk and fish sauce. Taste-test and adjust as needed.










Serve in bowls with fresh cilantro sprinkled over as a garnish. Enjoy. 








How to Adjust the Soup to Taste
One key to this soup is to adjusting it to suit your taste. After the coconut milk and fish sauce are added, test it, and make the following additions if needed:


To make it spicier, add a little more chili.


Rather than salt, add fish sauce for a saltier soup.


Add a squeeze of lime if it's too salty.


If it's too sour, add 1 teaspoon brown sugar.


Make the soup richer or creamier by adding more coconut milk. This also fixes a soup that's too spicy.



Tips


 are available fresh or frozen at Asian food stores.


If you can't find makrut lime leaves, use fresh lime juice instead. It will alter the taste slightly.


Use a gentle hand when stirring coconut milk to avoid clumping or curdling. Avoid bringing the coconut milk to a full boil.



Recipe Variations


Use vegan fish sauce, eliminate the shrimp, and substitute vegetable stock for the chicken stock.


Add bite-sized pieces of chicken breast instead of the shrimp.


Version without coconut milk: Coconut milk is optional in this 
.



Recipe Tags:



































































































































 




 




 




 






 




 




 




 




 




 




 
































































