















Aerial roots: can I cut them?
Plant Parent
Is it okay to cut off my Monstera’s aerial roots?
Darryl
As a matter of convenience, yes.  I usually try to direct them into the pot but they’ll eventually creep out, at which point I just cut them:
I’ve done this for years without any noticeable impact on the overall growth of the plant: here’s my plant 4 years apart…
If your growing conditions are good (adequate light) and you’re watering/fertilizing accordingly, then everything keeps growing – including aerial roots after they’re cut:
A small Monstera deliciosa will eventually grow many aerial roots, creating a crazy jungle look – here’s the view from below my monstera:
I personally like this look but if you’re looking for cleaner lines, you can cut off aerial roots and the plant will be just fine – as long as LIGHT is good.
If you want to learn houseplant care in a systematic way (rather than blindly following random tips and tricks), check out my online course: 
Or my book ‘
‘




















You might like




Misting: What is it actually useful for?
In my book, I stated that misting is about as useful to raise humidity as it is to light up a match to warm up a room: the effect on ambient humidity is minimal and temporary. And I don’t use a humidifier anywhere – my ambient indoor humidity in the winter goes down to 30% […]






Meet Greg 🌱
I’m so excited to share that HPJ has partnered with Greg, the app that helps you grow healthy and happier plants, to bring you even more data-driven, science-based plant care! The Greg team and I agree that plant care should be highly personalized, because no two plants or environments are alike. So we both emphasize […]






Scale Infestation: Helpful Photos
Scale is an interesting pest: most people notice them when they see little domes stuck to the stem or any ridges along a leaf. The domes are actually the last stage of the insect since it is a protective shell that resists insecticidal soap sprays. Inside the dome are the eggs. When they hatch, the […]





        Subscribe via email      
Sign up for my newsletter and you’ll be able to email me your specific plant questions. See previously answered questions in the ‘Get Plant Help’ section of my site.
Comments are closed.
Latest on Instagram


























