















Trellis installation for Monstera deliciosa
Taming the Monstera
I’ve been frequently asked about how I support my monstera so here are some details along with affiliate links to the products I’m using and enjoying.  Purchasing through these links goes to support this blog 🙂
Do I need to train my Monstera deliciosa?
Yes!  The growth pattern of the Monstera deliciosa is much like a pothos – vines that just keep getting longer.  For pothos, because of its smaller overall size, they can be left to hang off the side of the pot.  Since the monstera’s natural size is much larger, a few vines hanging out of the pot would quickly fill an entire room!  Therefore, you should affix the vines to a sturdy trellis so they can grow upwards.
What about using a moss pole?
The idea of the moss pole is to provide a medium onto which the aerial roots can grip, just like they do in the wild.  The only problem with trying to accomplish this indoors is that you need to keep the moss moist at all times – this is not recommended as the air doesn’t move as much as it does outside or in a nursery.  Stale air and constantly moist conditions are breeding grounds for mould/unwanted bacteria.
Even if you manage to keep the air fresh, a monstera’s vine can be quite heavy.  A single post will not be as sturdy as a multi-post trellis.
 
The Metal Trellis
The method I use for training my monstera vines is affixing them against a sturdy metal trellis like the Panacea Garden Ladder.  The triangular profile makes it much sturdier than a flat, fence-like design.
Soft Rubber Ties
Although the monstera vine is quite tough, I find that twine or wires will eventually dig into the plant’s flesh.  That’s why I use these Soft Rubber Ties – they’re strong, won’t slip once you’ve twisted them against each other, and won’t mar the plant.  They can be easily cut to whatever length you need.
When your monstera is young, fresh from the nursery, the vines probably won’t be hanging off the side of the pot for a few months.  Given good light and watering accordingly, those vines will seem to crawl outwards – this is the time to get them onto a trellis.
I hope this has been helpful for all you Monstera deliciosa parents out there.  If you haven’t already, feel free to 
 of how I acquired and cared for my monstera.
Tired of vague tips and tricks for houseplants?  I’ve put together an online course that will help you get real enjoyment from houseplant ownership:
Other Trellises:




















You might like




Aerial roots: can I cut them?
If your growing conditions are good (adequate light) and you’re watering/fertilizing accordingly, then everything keeps growing – including aerial roots after they’re cut: A small Monstera deliciosa will eventually grow many aerial roots, creating a crazy jungle look – here’s the view from below my monstera: I personally like this look but if you’re looking […]






Misting: What is it actually useful for?
In my book, I stated that misting is about as useful to raise humidity as it is to light up a match to warm up a room: the effect on ambient humidity is minimal and temporary. And I don’t use a humidifier anywhere – my ambient indoor humidity in the winter goes down to 30% […]






Meet Greg 🌱
I’m so excited to share that HPJ has partnered with Greg, the app that helps you grow healthy and happier plants, to bring you even more data-driven, science-based plant care! The Greg team and I agree that plant care should be highly personalized, because no two plants or environments are alike. So we both emphasize […]





        Subscribe via email      
Sign up for my newsletter and you’ll be able to email me your specific plant questions. See previously answered questions in the ‘Get Plant Help’ section of my site.
Comments are closed.
Latest on Instagram


























