
19 Best Restaurants in Markham

		By: 

Looking for the 
 to check out?
Although I grew up in 
, I actually spent a lot of time in Markham.
A lot of my friends lived in Markham, and the food scene was a lot better than Richmond Hill’s at the time, around a decade ago!
Nowadays, there’s great food all over the GTA (even in 
), and today I’ll be sharing some of my fave 
.
You’ll find plenty of incredible Asian food and more in Markham, especially 
.
Here are some of the best restaurants to eat at in Markham, Ontario!
Be sure to also follow me on 
 – I share a lot more content on there that doesn’t make it to the blog!
Hotels in Markham
If you’re visiting from out of town, book a stay at one of the best 
:
: a swanky 4-star hotel in Downtown Markham, a few steps away from some of the 
, 
, and more.
: a contemporary 4-star hotel located across from where the Night it Up! Asian night market is held annually, and within driving distance of Downtown Markham, First Markham Place, and Main Street Unionville.
: a modern 4-star hotel located on the border of Markham and Richmond Hill, with a beautiful 
 and indoor and outdoor pools. Also located right by Times Square, Commerce Gate, and East Beaver Creek, where you’ll find some of the 
.
More things to do in York Region
If you’re looking for more fun things to do in 
, you might enjoy these posts:
Looking for more stuff to do in Markham? Hit up the 
, 
, or 
, or check out these fun 
.
Spending time in Richmond Hill? Eat at the 
, the 
, or 
, or check out these fun 
 or 
.
Exploring all of York Region? Visit these 
!
Checking out Peel Region? Stop by the 
 in Mississauga.
Searching for stuff to do in Durham Region? Go on one of these 
 or check out the 
.
If you’re looking to do a tasting tour in Markham, there’s also a fun 
 that takes you all around the neighbourhood for 3.5 hours, and you get to learn the history of Main Street Unionville while tasting food from different restaurants!
Best restaurants in Markham
Alchemy serves up incredible and unique takes on classic brunch dishes.
Whether you’re in the mood for a braised beef shank eggs benedict or duck confit with waffles, they’ve got something delicious for everyone.
The restaurant is teeny-tiny and you have to order and pay at the counter before sitting down, so come early for a seat!
It’s definitely worth waiting in line for, though – the food is absolutely incredible.
 4361 Hwy 7, Unionville, ON
Smash is another great restaurant in Markham that puts unique spins on classic comfort food dishes, and their brunch is just as amazing as Alchemy’s.
They’re actually pretty much located right next to Alchemy!
They’re located right on Highway 7, and they’ve also got a great patio for you to enjoy your hearty brunch.
 4261 Hwy 7, Unionville, ON
NextDoor is actually a sister restaurant to Smash, and they serve up modern Canadian dishes with a twist.
Their burgers are super delicious, but pretty much everything they have on the menu is amazing.
They have an epic brunch tower for either 2 or 4 people if you’re looking to go all out with brunch!
They’re located in the adorable Main Street Unionville neighbourhood, and they even have their own parking lot.
If you’re also looking for a fun activity to do in the area, you can do a 
 where you get to learn the history behind the neighbourhood while eating bites from different restaurants!
139 Main St Unionville, Unionville, ON
Pitalicious
Pitalicious makes literally the best shawarma in Markham.
It’s not a fancy spot, but the food is absolutely incredible here.
I always grab the plates instead of the sandwiches ’cause they’re a lot less messy and easier to eat.
Be sure to grab some baklava for dessert as well!
 7605 Woodbine Ave, Markham, ON
Bingz is a fast casual restaurant chain based out of Beijing, and they serve up amazing Chinese crispy burgers.
The crispy burgers are what you should be coming for, but they also have some noodle and wonton dishes, as well as some traditional Chinese drinks (try their Plum Cold Brew)!
They have 60 locations across China, and you can find their first Canadian restaurant at First Markham Place, with plenty of seating inside.
Unit 11 & 12, 3229 Hwy 7, Markham, ON
I’ve been going to Gal’s Sushi since I was in high school, and my BFF and I have always loved it here.
The sushi is fantastic, and I love the Korean side dishes that come in the bento boxes!
They also have Korean food on the menu if you’re in the mood for that instead.
If you’re looking for even more sushi, check out my post on the 
.
 3621 Highway 7 #106, Markham, ON
Looking for fantastic takeout sushi in Markham?
Mi-Ne has plenty of great bento boxes and lunch specials available for takeout, plus plenty of awesome signature maki rolls to enjoy if you dine in.
Mi-Ne Sushi has one location in Markham and one in Aurora.
 8865 Woodbine Ave, Markham, ON
If you’re looking for authentic Korean food in Markham, you’ll need to visit Owl of Minerva.
Owl is a Korean restaurant chain based in Toronto that’s been around for around two decades now, and they have a few locations across the GTA!
Their Kamjatang (pork bone soup) and Kalbi (BBQ short ribs) are my faves to order, but everything on their menu is amazing.
You can visit their Markham location at First Markham Place.
First Markham Place, 3229 Hwy 7 #7b, Markham, ON
Enjoy the ramen of your dreams at Sansotei, an awesome ramen chain based out of Toronto.
Their dishes are inspired by traditional ramen from across Japan, and they even source some ingredients directly from Japan!
If you can handle spicy dishes, you should definitely grab the Spicy Tantan Ramen Noodles. Yum.
3987 Hwy 7 #4, Markham, ON
Got a craving for some Japanese tonkatsu?
If you don’t know what tonkatsu is, it’s basically breaded and deep fried pork cutlet.
Katsuya has all the katsu you need, and you can choose from their different signature sauces.
My fave is the Curry Katsu, but any katsu will satisfy your tastebuds.
I’d also recommend getting a katsu stuffed with cheese – you can thank me later.
 3229 Hwy 7, Markham, ON
Beefing with 7 is a Hong Kong-style restaurant by HK actor/singer Jordan Chan, and they’re all about homey Cantonese comfort foods.
Try their Signature Beef Brisket Noodles or Braised Pork Feet!
You also can’t enjoy an HK meal without a Hong Kong milk tea (called 
in Cantonese), which you can have iced or hot.
They have several locations across the GTA, and their Markham location is near Steeles & Brimley.
2 Fenton Rd, Unit 8, Markham, ON
Chat Bar is an izakaya-style Chinese spot known for their chuan’r (AKA Chinese skewers), and you can find them on Main Street Unionville.
It’s the perfect spot to grab savoury skewers and beer, and they’re even open late.
They have all kinds of delicious meat and veggie skewer options (try their lamb skewers), plus other Chinese comfort food options.
You can find them in Markham, Scarborough, North York, and downtown!
 187 Main St, Unionville, ON
I was a huge fan of Inatei in Richmond Hill back in the day, but it’s since closed down.
I recently discovered that Hibiki was their OG sister location, and it’s located on Highway 7 by Main Street Unionville.
They serve up some of the freshest sashimi in Markham, and they have all kinds of authentic Japanese dishes on the menu!
It’s definitely a place to take someone if you’re looking to impress them 😉
4450 Hwy 7, Unionville, ON
I’d driven by IKON many times before, but I actually decided to give it a try after seeing a couple of people post about it on Instagram.
They’re known for having fresh and delicious sashimi, which you can have in one of their platters or in their donburi (rice bowls).
Try their IKON Chirashi Don – it features the chef’s selection of cubed sashimi with tamago, cucumner, ikura, and ponzu sauce!
If you’re looking for rolls, try their Supreme Roll with otoro and uni, or their Spikon Roll, which features a salted egg sauce.
They also wrap their takeout in fabric, a Japanese method called furoshiki, so you can keep it and reuse it for other things!
Located at First Markham Centre, which is across from First Markham Place, they’re kind of hidden, but totally worth the visit.
They’re closed on Mondays and Tuesdays, and they open in the late afternoon on Wednesdays, so do take note of that if you’re planning a visit!
11 Fairburn Dr. Unit 20, Markham, ON
If you’re looking for the best all-you-can-eat (AYCE) sushi in Markham, KAKA is it.
They have everything from donburi, to maki rolls, to torched and pressed sushi, and it’s all amaze.
You’ll find them at First Markham Place, and pricing is $34.95 per adult on weekdays and $37.95 on weekends and holidays.
3235 Hwy 7 #18A, Markham, ON
Good Catch is seafood heaven, serving up all kinds of amazing and unique takes on comfort food eats in Downtown Markham.
From classic seafood boils to lobster rolls, they’ve got all the good stuff.
They also have a bunch of local Ontario beers on tap if you’re up for a drink!
If you’re into craft beer, you might enjoy this post on the 
!
 179 Enterprise Blvd #109, Unionville, ON
If you’re a lover of sushi, you’ll also love eating 
.
I usually grab the Lava Blaze or the Poké Box bowls at The Poké Box – they’re amazing!
You can find The Poké Box at Highway 7 & Woodbine, and they have a few other locations downtown and in Waterloo.
 3000 Hwy 7, Markham, ON
Poké Guys is another one of my fave 
, and you can find them in Downtown Markham.
You can choose between their signature bowls or build your own, and they have a nice selection of marinated raw tuna and salmon to choose from.
They’re super generous with their sashimi, and they have some of the best sauces for poké bowls!
They also have a location in downtown Toronto, and they’ll be opening one in Vaughan soon.
 8110 Birchmount Rd. Unit 10, Markham, ON
Diana’s Oyster Bar & Grill
If you’re a fan of oysters, you absolutely need to visit Diana’s Oyster Bar & Grill in Markham.
While I’m not crazy about the cooked dishes, the fresh seafood is completely worth coming here for.
My fave oysters are Raspberry Point, French Kiss, Kusshi, and Malpeque!
 7501 Woodbine Ave, Markham, ON | 
Best restaurants in Markham:
Alchemy Coffee
Smash Kitchen & Bar
NextDoor Restaurant
Pitalicious
Bingz
Gal’s Sushi
Mi-Ne Sushi
The Owl of Minerva
Sansotei Ramen
Beefing with 7
Chat Bar
Hibiki Japanese Cuisine
IKON Sushi Bar & Lounge
KaKa All You Can Eat
The Poké Box
Poké Guys
Diana’s Oyster Bar & Grill
Markham is known for their amazing Asian food scene, but there are a lot of delicious eats from all kinds of cultures.
Hopefully you found at least one new restaurant in Markham on this list that you’ll want to check out now!
If you’re looking to do a tasting tour in Markham where you get to try a bunch of different restaurants, try this fun 3.5 hour 
!
Have you been to any of these Markham food spots? What are some of the best restaurants in Markham in your opinion? Let me know on 
 or 
!
If you’re looking for more fun things to do in 
, you might enjoy these posts:
Looking for more stuff to do in Markham? Hit up the 
, 
, or 
, or check out these fun 
.
Spending time in Richmond Hill? Eat at the 
, the 
, or 
, or check out these fun 
 or 
.
Exploring all of York Region? Visit these 
!
Checking out Peel Region? Stop by the 
 in Mississauga.
Searching for stuff to do in Durham Region? Go on one of these 
 or check out the 
.
If you’re looking for even more restaurants in the 
, here are some other posts you might enjoy:
Be sure to keep up with me on 
, 
, 
, and 
 if you aren’t already!
Feel free to 
 to get my blog posts delivered straight to your inbox.


















Tags
Howdy, I’m Jessica!
I'm a born-and-raised Torontonian with a love for horror movies and drinking way too much coffee. Here you'll find everything from travel tips to fashion inspiration!
Let's be friends!




















Navigation
Categories
Follow Me




















Search
Recent Posts










































Copyright © 2021 Diary of a Toronto Girl Inc.  | 
 on 
 by 
