To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then
 
 
.
To revisit this article, select My Account, then
 
 
23 Best Restaurants in Toronto
As one of the most culturally diverse cities on the planet, Toronto evades categorization. While restaurants in other cosmopolitan cities like 
 or 
 have iconic, immediately identifiable cuisines, Canada’s largest city manages to remain a moving target. Some would say its strong suit is the diversity of cuisines available; others would point out the Canadian influence across all categories, which emphasizes foraged ingredients and provincially sourced meats and produce. The bottom line is, that you've got a lot of choices. Whether you’re in for a high-brow dining experience, or just a quick bite at the neighborhood haunt, you will find that Toronto’s food scene—truly—has something for everyone. Read on for our picks for which Toronto restaurants to eat at first.
For even more recommendations and info, check out our full 
Grey Gardens lives up to its bohemian-luxe address in Kensington Market; it's just vintage enough without feeling dowdy. Menu standouts here include sweet shrimp with compressed watermelon radishes and a dry-aged Peking-style duck breast, served on homemade sauerkraut and duck fried rice. Pop in for a glass of rare Sauternes and a snack after work (no reservations required), or come with a friend to linger over dinner in the back dining room (reservations only). 
At Pukka, chef Dinesh Butola's refined, yet casual, Indian cuisine includes slow-braised beef short ribs with cumin, cloves, and cardamom and sliced paneer with shiitake mushrooms, spinach, and pistachios. The menu of British desserts includes a knockout sticky toffee pudding—a gooey mound with of chai-caramel goodness. For drinks, skip the cocktails and order from the stellar wine list, which includes a good selection of reasonably priced bottles that all stand up to the bold flavors emerging from the kitchen.
Located on the first floor of a converted house, Pinky's hardly feels like a restaurant at all and serves an interesting take on Vietnamese food. Start off your meal with lightly fried banh xeo (savory crepes) stuffed with broccoli or the Tiger's Milk ceviche, with yellowfin tuna, scallops, surf clams, chilis, cilantro, tom yum spices, and coconut milk. The "Pho beef dip-you-dip-i-dip," is at once nostalgic and humorous—it's a blow-torch-toasted bành mí cheese steak with razor-thin brisket, Asiago, hoisin, Sriracha, and cilantro, all served with a bowl of pho for dipping.
WATCH
A Night in São Paulo
The corner of Queen and Spadina was never the most posh or  interesting address in Toronto, so when chef Patrick Kriss announced he would open a restaurant on the third floor of a historic Victorian building there, local foodies were skeptical. Once Alo opened in 2015 with high-concept, French-inflected cuisine, it soon topped critics' choice lists around the world and Kriss' naysayers became believers. The menu changes with the seasons; you're as likely to encounter 30-day dry-aged rack of lamb as you are Hokkaido sea urchin with fennel, wasabi, and yuzu.
Chubby's is the best Jamaican restaurant in Toronto. There are great burgers and coconut-crusted fish, but the main event here is the jerk chicken, which takes four days to prepare. Each bird is brined for 24 hours, dry-rubbed, laced with scotch bonnet peppers, and left to dry before getting barbecued over maple wood. Save room for dessert, if possible; the passion fruit and coconut cream pie is a nice counterpoint to the spice rub's satisfying heat.
You wouldn't expect to find a French-Cantonese restaurant on College Street in Little Italy, but that's part of DaiLo's fun. The menu features crowdpleasers like truffled pumpkin dumplings and jellyfish slaw, but the real treats here include the whole fried trout, a dramatic and flavorful dish that's served pre-chopped with several dipping sauces, the braised lamb neck with banana blossom salad, and the General Tso sweetbreads. A $65 chef's choice menu, which consists of six or seven dishes, showcases the menu's full range.
Sotto Sotto's Italian cooking is flavorful and filling, but it may not impress food-lovers accustomed to more inventive menus—in some ways 
 at this restaurant is more important than 
 at this restaurant. That said, the seafood risotto (which takes about 40 minutes to prepare) is incredible. And the wine list, dominated by super Tuscans along with a couple of frizzy Franciacortas has a lot of quality, if pricey offerings. The best time to come is during the Toronto International Film Festival during the first half of September when you might be seated next to an A-list actor.
Canoe has the best view in Toronto: 
 standing to one side, planes landing at City Airport to another, and Toronto's glittering skyline sprawling beyond the horizon. And yes, the food here is just as good as the real estate. The menu at Canoe is an adventurous, surprising, and just-plain-delicious celebration of flavors and ingredients from across Canada. You'll find foie gras from Quebec, the flakiest fresh Pacific fish, and fine Ontario produce and dairy. Start with either the Ontario burrata with birch-pickled cucumbers and prairie seeds or the Quebec foie gras with rhubarb, pink peppercorn, and sumac meringue. The tea-smoked duck breast, which is served with duck-liver mousse, parsnip, and poached Niagara pear, is sublime.
Tennessee Tavern isn't high-brow by any measure. Patrons are here to get their pierogi fix in a fun environment—and, of course, dig into the best Eastern European food in Toronto. Anything hailing from East and Southeast Europe is fair game here; the menu boasts everything from cucumber salad with feta, sumac, and dill to ćevapčići, a traditional Bosnian sausage. Kick off the meal with assorted pickles and an order of the boiled eggs with kielbasa and whole-grain mustard. Desserts are a bit lacking, but the main dishes are so hearty that you probably won't have room, anyway.
Located on the ground floor of the Four Seasons condo building, Buca adequately conveys the glitz of the posh Yorkville neighborhood, with polished concrete walls, a sparkling open kitchen, and an impressive marble bar. And yet the food and wine still manage to take center stage. This is refined Italian at its best, and the use of Canadian ingredients—
 cod, Gaspé scallops, Acadian sturgeon caviar—makes it one of Toronto's most unique dining experiences. If you have time (and money) to spare, opt for the 16-course chef's tasting menu ($180). 
Richmond Station is a neighborhood restaurant that still manages to be elegant. And although the menu is on the shorter side, all of the dishes are thoughtful, flavorful, and unpretentious. If you're unsure where to start, the tasting menu from “Top Chef Canada” winner Carl Heinrich—humbly billed as "Let us cook for you"—is a good choice. No pretenses—just good food.
Chef and co-owner Jason Carter refers to Dandylion's seasonal cuisine as "simple"—there are few extraneous flavors and ingredients—but his food is far from boring. Seafood, such as monkfish blanketed in a generous portion of warm carrot soup or seared scallops complement a bed of shaved fennel and bitter greens shine especially brightly here. And the "Egg, Mushroom, Savoury Granola" is a surprisingly tantalizing concoction of wild rice, various foraged mushrooms, kelp powder, and a house blend of seeds. 
For a come-as-you-are, home-cooking joint started by a trio of 
 alumni, Donna's has a confidently un-cool approach—so much so that it becomes cool. See: the quirky mismatched plates, vintage record player, and potted plants. The menu here is hyper-seasonal and prone to changes based on what's fresh—and how the chefs are feeling—but you can always expect perfectly seasoned dishes that allow each ingredient's natural flavors to shine.
The most striking thing about Gusto 101 isn't the fact that it's located in a former auto body shop—it's that the space actually feels cozy and convivial. The restaurant delivers crowd pleasing Southern Italian classics, including a near-perfect rendition of 
. Grilled entrees are also exceptional, especially the branzino, which is served with escarole, cannellini beans, and a lemony, garlicky salmoriglio sauce. And you won't need happy hour here thanks to the  $1/ounce house wine—a real bargain in this area.
To dine at this old battle axe of a restaurant is to step back in time. Founded by prominent restaurateur Harry Barberian in 1959, the downtown institution has made a name for itself as Toronto's quintessential steakhouse. Few places in town can compete with Barberian's top-quality, dry-aged, butchered-in-house steaks. Its proprietary spice blend is a mouthwatering complement to the meat, and accompaniments are standard, but plentiful: Caesar salad, French onion soup, mashed potatoes, and so on. The impressive wine list purports to be one of the most robust in Canada.
Located past the reception desk and down a short hallway in the newly renovated and buzzworthy 
 Constantine glows at all hours of the day and night. The menu celebrates the Mediterranean and places an emphasis on coastal Italy. Standouts include the grilled halloumi with chickpea fritters and a healthy shmear of labneh, the braised rabbit pappardelle, the roasted sweet potatoes with fresh figs, and the creamy fire-roasted eggplant. The grilled seafood is also tremendous; the Fogo Island cod with leeks, saffron, and walnut is a revelation. The whole place is perfect if you're trying to impress someone.
La Banane, where whole sea bass comes baked in a criss-cross croûte drizzled, with yuzu beurre monté, reminds us that French food doesn't have to be stuffy. The flatiron steak au poivre is as good as any you would find in a Parisian brasserie, and the raw bar is one of the best in town, with everything from marinated mussels to Dungeness crab. The bar's playful and inventive cocktails come from Chris Weaver, an alum of Toronto's Momofuku outpost. The whole place thrums with energy, which can make it a bit loud, but when it's good here, it's really good.
Toronto's foodies clamber over each other for a reservation at Dreyfus, which is nestled into a Victorian townhouse on Harbord Street. The 30-seat restaurant provides a transportive experience that feels part French bistro and part Montreal house party. The vibe is right, the crowd is cool, the food is French without the fuss, and it's hard to think of a better date night spot in Toronto right now.
Honest Weight, in the Junction feels a bit like a New England clam shack. Helmed by four of the city's noted seafood chefs, the restaurant takes its fish seriously, and Torontonians will cross the city just to get their fix. There's always something a little unexpected and rare to try, like house-steamed cockles or Azorean limpet clams. Grilled squid served atop romesco is a favorite, as is the fish sandwich.
Toronto's in-the-know food obsessives clamor for tables at Bar Raval, a warm and bustling joint known for its stellar tapas and pintxos. If the dining room feels like something out of 
, owners Grant van Gameren and Robin Goodfellow has done their jobs; after all, they used 
, a neighborhood in the Spanish city, as inspiration for the sexy vibe and colorful decor. Be prepared to order lots of stuff off the pinxtos menu and share it, from the house-smoked mussels with chili and fennel to the pancetta with rhubarb.
The restaurant swears by its "unobtrusive and respectful" waitstaff, which has helped keep Scaramouche a Toronto favorite for 35 years and counting. A  philosophy of ethical sourcing and civic engagement suffuses the menu, which includes sustainable British Columbia caviars, Ontario AAA beef, and Quebec suckling pig. Chef and owner Keith Froggett pays close attention to his ingredients, employing cooking techniques that celebrate their inherent flavors. People come here to celebrate major milestones—graduations, birthdays, proposals. Although the dining room is somewhat hushed, you'll still notice a jubilant sentiment among fellow diners. 
Imagine a quintessential red sauce Italian joint—Giulietta is the polar opposite of that. Canadian  chef Rob Rossi's highly sophisticated, pan-Italian restaurant offers a refined approach, with none of the clichés that have pervaded so many other Italian hotspots in recent years. In other words, don't expect to find any burrata on the menu here. Handcrafted pastas are a hit—see the shellfish taglioni, and the flawless cacio e pepe—as are the wood-fired pizzas. The namesake Giulietta, a thin-cruster, comes with pistachios, lardo, cream, and smoked scamorza—it's decadent and fantastic.
Although Toronto's King West has been known for its buzzy nightlife and a rowdy club scene for a few years now, Baro proves that, yes, the area also offers high-quality restaurants. Plates are Latin with Asian influences; the tiradito ceviche, made with albacore, passion fruit, chili, and cilantro, is out of this world. Other standouts include the chicken wings, which come in a smoked guava barbecue sauce, and the OG Duck Chaufa, duck confit rice prepared tableside with edamame, egg, corn, chili, and flying fish roe.
Condé Nast Traveler does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. Any information published by Condé Nast Traveler is not intended as a substitute for medical advice, and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional.
More from Condé Nast Traveler
Contact
© 
 
2021
 
 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
 
 
 and 
 and 
 
 may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
 
 
