Dining Guest Reviews
Restaurant 
Had dinner with girl friends. Menu is perfect, something for everyone. Service was awesome and Jason was very accommodating. Will be back definitely!


Visited as a guest in the Echo restaurant for lunch just today. We were entertaining friends from California, and enjoyed our ocean side table. We chose to stay indoors - to enjoy the air conditioning 😊. I just want to say that, in addition to a nice meal, we had a delightful waitress, Jackie. She had just the right balance of friendliness and efficiency. She recognized that we wanted time to visit and did not rush us. She and other staff members made certain that we had everything we needed. Kudos!


We had lunch here a few times while on the island visiting family and friends. The servers here are just wonderful and have great memories it seems. We sat on the ocean front patio and enjoyed the view with our delicious wine and lunch. Must try!


Hello. Please give our thanks to the Manager(s) and others for the wonderful room and bottle of sparkling wine for our Anniversary stay. We had an amazing time. The room was so comfortable, the food at Echo absolutely spectacular (we ate two meals there). Our waitress was just wonderful. Looking forward to staying with you in the future. What a great place! 


Spent 3 nights at this resort earlier this month and it was a great stay! We paid for an upgrade to the oceanfront cabana, which was worth the price. The beach views, calm ocean and ability to watch the sunset on our patio were highlights of the trip! The hotel restaurant was exceptional, not only because every meal we enjoyed had a variety of options and was flavorful but also because the prices were so reasonable for an oceanfront resort! The entire island and resort were a lot more laid back and calm than other touristy coastal front towns in the southeast, but that may in part due to it being early March. I'd imagine there's a bit more traffic during high seasons, but either way, we'll definitely be back! Highly recommended!


Rachel at the Pool (drinks server) was so gorgeous. We chatted with her all weekend and she played with the kids. She's an asset to the hotel esp for people with families. I saw other attendants playing with the kids too which is so welcoming. Rachel was gorgeous. Give her a raise! 


I had lunch with some of my colleagues at Echo on Day 1. I had the wedge salad - it was delicious. On Night 2, I enjoyed a drink at the bar. I had a Margarita. The service was excellent. 


Dinner in the King and Prince's new restaurant-ECHO (open only 12 days) interesting menu, wonderful meal that was perfectly served by our waiter, Peter, who also filled us in on the local community. Room service breakfast was exactly on time, hot (not warm) food and oh so good. All in all, a perfect stay!!


The food was absolutely wonderful, from preparation to presentation, very pleasing. We especially enjoyed the special bar drinks, the cucumber/cilantro infused vodka martini and the K&P Aquarium was great (even took photos so we could try to replicate at home).


Although we didn't go into the onsite restaurant, we ordered some food at the bar a few times and it was delicious. The bar area and lobby were nice and open, good place to relax and meet friends.


My only (dining) experience was ordering a pizza at 9:15pm. Tanner answered my telephone call to inquire about the time of service and the pizza options. He took a lot of time discussing details with me and even went over the menu - assuring me that I would have my pizza by the time the kitchen closed at 10pm. At 9:45 the pizza was delivered PIPING HOT as if I were sitting in a restaurant. It was delicious and exactly what I ordered.


I was expecting the food here to follow in the old Southern tradition but was pleased to find the menus trending in a contemporary direction with emphasis on lean, fresh and organic fare -- while still keeping with Low Country/Southern convention. My favorite dish at the Ocean Terrace Restaurant, in fact, was shrimp and grits topped with a tasty tasso sauce and loaded with locally netted Georgia white shrimp,which are positively unmatched for flavor.

The chef and his staff are staunch advocates of the farm-to-table concept, sourcing produce, meats, poultry and dairy products almost exclusively from Georgia organic farms.


Lovely lunch today. Ordered the crab cake sandwich and was pleased by the quality of the crab cake, as well as the nicely toasted roll, thick slices of ripe avocado, and crisp hot bacon which accompanied it. The side of fresh fruit was also generous and perfectly ripe. A very good experience! Add this to the best dining view on the island on a gorgeous Fall day, and it adds up to perfection!


The food was fresh, properly prepared and a great value for the price. We highly recommend it. The breakfast buffet on Sunday was equally as good. 


Just finished our annual stay at the King and Prince; as always we had an amazing experience, it was an almost perfect stay as always. I would like to say that everyone was always accommodating and helpful when needed. Kudos to all the wait staff by the pool and in the tavern...Kelly was the best bartender ever!. . . we loved everything about the King and Prince and will be returning same time next year. This is the sixth year we have spent the same week at the King and Prince and look forward to it all year long.



Thank you so much for taking such wonderful care of our family during our visit to the King and Prince. You and your staff were so very accommodating and informed about our special dietary needs. The food at the King’s Tavern was always delicious!

My son had a wonderful time and liked that he could order special food and the chef would make it so he could eat it. If you wouldn’t mind telling me how you prepared the fish, I would like to try making some for him at home, since he enjoyed it so much. He even asked if we could stay until his birthday in July. He said that he wanted to have his birthday at the beach too! What a thoughtful gesture to have the cake for my niece on her birthday! It was delicious, and my son and my mom enjoyed their desserts as well. I know my niece will remember her 10th birthday for years to come!

Thank you also for having the special gluten free items for my mother. I tried the blueberry muffin and it was delicious! It was so nice to know we didn’t have to worry as much about our food while on vacation, and that we were able to order it and not have to bring a lot of food with us.

Once again THANK YOU SO MUCH for everything! We had a great vacation, and you and your staff helped to make it that way! We will be back next year! I’ll be sure to let you know in advance before we come again.

Thanks again for all your hard work and consideration,
Melanie P.

Reception and all service staff were very helpful and cordial. Our beachfront room on the third floor had a balcony and a great view of the pool area, the ocean, and sunrise- magnificent. Food in the tavern for dinner and breakfast was good. Especially liked the lowcountry shrimp and grits. They surprised my husband with a slice of chocolate cake with "Happy Birthday" written on the plate when we casually mentioned that it was his birthday!

The poolside common areas are great with chairs and umbrellas for free. Also the servers are ever present to provide whatever you like from their cafe menu. My wife is hard to cook for since she has to special order for low salt. The chef nailed it perfectly. That was memorable.

The breakfast brunch was great. We went at 10:45 and everything was still hot and there was plenty of everything. Our server was very friendly and took good care of us. We enjoyed sitting at the pool and enjoying cocktails. We also loved walking on the beach.

From check in to check out, the staff is fantastic. At check in they gave us great information on local restaurants and things happening at the resort for the week. The in house restaurant staff is very accommodating and nice. A breath of fresh air to most places we have been. The outside pool service is great for food and drinks. We used this almost everyday for lunch. The beach at this resort is fantastic as well. At low tide you can see all sorts of things from starfish, crabs, shells, sand dollars, etc. We even found three horseshoe crabs in the tide pools at low tide. We will definitely vacation here again.

All the good reviews that I have read about this property are true. The friendliness of the staff seems genuine. I have never seen such good customer service as I experienced poolside.

Had a terrific dinner (Thanksgiving Buffet) today at the King and Prince with good food, wonderful service.

The food was amazing, and we enjoyed perfect wait service from James.

The hotel's room service food was really great. My adult daughter said the fries were the best ever. The breakfast was top notch, and dinner was really nice as well. 



Wait staff were extremely friendly and helpful. Delicious meals! 



Everything brought to us through room service was impeccable. We were celebrating a birthday, and several unique requests that were all satisfied perfectly.

Service was very good and servers were kind, friendly and even offered to-go coffees in the morning for us to take back to our room.
It was beautiful-peaceful and relaxing. Staff was outstanding. The restaurant was exceptional along with the hosts and servers.
We thoroughly enjoyed staying at the King and Prince. Everything was perfect. We dined in the restaurant at the hotel and it was delicious and the service was excellent. We played golf, went shopping downtown, rode the trolley and just enjoyed sightseeing on this beautiful island. Love it all and want to come back to visit soon. 
I am currently undergoing chemotherapy. We were in St. Simon's for a wedding, and I felt I needed to rest during the day. Sent the guys, my husband and son, to play golf. It was wonderful to kick back, watch old westerns on the great tv, while relaxing in the incredibly comfortable bed. The housekeeper was so pleasant, and the room service was incredible. Ordered a quesadilla and loved every mouth full. It came hot and delicious. It was a great day, and I was ready to enjoy the wedding. My husband even got me a virgin pina colada, which we enjoyed on the balcony. Wonderful! We will be back for sure! Thanks so much for making our stay so special!
A very friendly welcoming place to spend a couple of nights.  All personnel were very well trained, accommodating and helpful (all done with a smile).  Everything was handled with efficiency and attention to every detail was given.  Food was delicious and the view was wonderful while dining. Thanks for doing such an outstanding job to make the stay so pleasurable.  
Anniversary/birthday weekend, room was beautiful and very clean. Request for top floor and king bed was fulfilled. Brunch was outstanding loved it loved it loved it
We have had two meals here in two days.  Both were excellent.  Tonight “Q” was attentive and friendly.  Great job!






























#kingandprinceresort























     <li class="flickr"><a title="Flickr" href="https://www.flickr.com/photos/kingandprinceresort/" target="_blank">
     <svg><use xmlns:xlink="https://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" xlink:href="#flickr"></use></svg>
     flickr
     </a></li>
     


















The King and Prince Beach & Golf Resort


© 2021 All Rights Reserved.
Powered by 
®
Reservations






Direct: 




The King and Prince






















Learn More




















