























































































































































































































































































BREAKFAST, LUNCH, DINNER & LATE NIGHT
Book your Holiday Party at Symposium. We have an extensive menu for every taste and for every budget. Office Party, Social Brunch, Large Group Gathering, Family Celebration: Symposium is the best place for casual, upscale dining where you can #taketime & #makemoments

Dine at Symposium Cafe Restaurant & Lounge Markham where we bring the unique Symposium Cafe
brand to the expanding and energetic Markham, Ontario community. Located within walking
distance for Angus Glen residents, we are open 7 days a week – early mornings to late nights
– offering complete menu dining options including full service breakfast and brunch (served
daily until 4pm), mouth-watering desserts, burgers, seafood, steaks, sandwiches, vegetarian
fare, fresh fruit specialty beverages, full bar, and rotating daily special features. With
seating for 85 indoors and a beautiful, full- service 40 seat outdoor patio, Symposium Cafe
Markham is proud to be a part of the vibrant communities of Angus Glen and Markham.
Daily Symposium Specials & Features 
 Try everyone’s favourite meal deal with our 7-Day promotions – the most innovative and
popular in the Ontario restaurant market! And when combined with the Symposium’s customer
service and quality, it’s no surprise that Symposium Cafe Restaurant & Lounge continues to
be honoured with Readers’ Choice awards including Best Breakfast, Best Brunch, Best Family
Restaurant, Best Business lunch, Best Desserts, Best Atmosphere and Best restaurant near me.

Symposium Cafe & Restaurant Specialties, Highlights, and Features (Restaurant Markham):



 Full service Breakfast/Brunch menu: Omelettes, Waffles, French Toast, Freshly squeezed
juices



 Lunch menu: burgers, salads, soup, appetizers, sandwiches, and full breakfast menu til
4 pm



 Dinner menu: steaks, seafood, pastas, rice bowls and unique appetizers


 Fully licensed lounge: specialty cocktails, over 30 martini options, 12 beer on tap, 34
varieties of wine, specialty coffee beverages.



 Restaurant open early mornings and late nights


 Late Night Kitchen & Dining: full restaurant menu available until closing including
burgers, steaks, seafood



 Business meetings and staff functions party menus


 Award winning restaurant concept


 Large scenic outdoor restaurant patio


 Good selection of vegetarian menu options


 Extensive menu selection of desserts: cakes, freshly made waffles, ice-cream, crepes



Symposium Delivery
Restaurant Info 
 Markham Ontario
Restaurant Hours
Follow us

























Restaurant Services




















Accepted payments

Symposium Google 360 Tour 

Markham Ontario Restaurant

Symposium Video 

Markham Ontario Restaurant

Photo Gallery 

Markham Ontario Restaurant

Symposium Cafe Restaurant Reviews (Markham Ontario)


 I love the service here…Greek salad is great*


 Sky high Carrot Cake is amazing. The cream cheese frosting is creamy, buttery
and just sweet enough


 Great restaurant to have a drink and catch up with friends


 Loads of pulled pork with caramelized onions and pesto sauce…It was really
good


 Keep up the good work Symposium!


 Great Restaurant with a Ton of Menu Choices


 Fresh salads, terrific sandwiches, wonderful entrees


 Full house due to daily specials


 One of the better caesars I’ve had in a while


 Fabulous breakfast menu


 The restaurant decor is nice and the atmosphere is good


 Symposium is a great place to meet with friends


Service was great and the restaurant was very busy


 New breakfast stop



A warm and inviting atmosphere, delicious menu offerings, and superior customer
service.
We're the 'go-to' destination for


casual upscale dining.



































 

6021 Yonge Street Unit 475 
 Toronto, Ontario, Canada M2M3W2



See 
 page to contact your local Symposium 




